# CS 225 Data Structures
## Team Contract (matatov-suminc2-mrtobin2-emilyc7)
### Communication
1. **Team Meetings** Our team will meet once a week (in person) to discuss progress and any problems that need debugging. Each meeting will take approximately 30 minutes to an hour, depending on the topics and problems we need to discuss for that day. We will each take notes during the meeting as necessary to complete our portions of the project.
2. **Assistance** Each team member can be contacted through text, email, and Discord. Outside of emergencies or other commitments, we commit to responding to texts, emails, and Discord messages within 48 hours.
3. **Respect** We are committed to building an open working environment where everyone’s ideas are respected. In our meetings, we will make sure to have dedicated time where every member debriefs on their work and has the opportunity to share ideas and/or problems they are having. We will hold an open discussion on the idea’s pitfalls and merits to decide what will be best for us as a collective. If a member acts disrespectfully or judgemental towards another we will address it in the meeting and make sure that we all understand how to communicate in an open and respectful manner.
### Collaboration
1. **Work Distribution** Each team member will have equal amounts of work to complete every week. However, if one individual confronts unexpected complications or work, the individual should be responsible for communicating with the rest of the group, putting in more work after the occurrence clears up. Additionally, suminc2 and mrtobin2 will take accountability for organizing the code syntax and structure after each week’s work. Depending on the situations of each member, we will also discuss who will be responsible for each deliverable for that week.
2. **Time Commitment** To ensure equal distribution of work each group member is expected to independently work no less than 4 and no more than 10 hours each week on the project. If a certain member’s responsibility is taking an unexpectedly long time to complete, they should communicate that to the rest of the team and receive assistance as needed. If a team member is consistently not putting in enough time and not completing their tasks, we will ask them -- politely -- to explain their circumstances. Depending on their response, we will, as a team, decide what is the next best action and if it is necessary to consult with the team’s mentor.
3. **Conflict Resolution** All conflicts within the group will be subject to a vote. In the event of a tie, we will hold an open discussion to allow each member to state their side. In the event of another tie, we will consult our team mentor to try and resolve the conflict.
### Electronic Signatures
* Sumin Cho, suminc2